[Problem Solving] VENDING MACHINE

Rules of the Game
1. You are free to choose your best language and IDE (Development Environment) as
per your choice.
2. We are particularly interested in understanding your craft on how you design your
solution. Your code enables us to know about your ability to code. So the key
things we are interested are:
● The final code should compile and run successfully.
● All corner cases should be handled.
● The code is modular with clear interfaces identified and coded.
● Proper use of abstractions and clean production ready code.
● Code can be extended for features addition.

Problem Definition
I own a vending machine that can hold up to a total of 'N' food items which could be a
max of 26 types (A,B,C ... Z) at any given point in time. Each slot is given a number
starting at 1 increasing with increasing distance from the dispensing point in steps of one.
I want to create an automated vending system that allows me to manage my machine
without human intervention.
To prepare the machine for use we need to fill it with consumables. Items of the same
type cost the same amount of money so each item of type ‘A’ will cost the same amount
and we only take currency in exact amounts(we assume customers are nice enough to
have the exact amount in hand). The order we maintain to fill the food items will be the
order vending machines can dispense them(users cannot request items in random order).
For example, if the sequence of items inserted into the machine is A, B, C, D then it can
only dispense the food items in order A, B, C, ... so if a customer wants to order C and not

A & B, it is mandatory to charge for A + B + C and dispense all 3 items. Whenever such
requests are initiated, machine need to perform few minimum actions:
1. Checking availability of items
2. Verifying amount of cash provided
3. Dispensing all the items to the vending point
Valid assumptions
1. Slot index starts at 1
2. When an item is dispensed, items after the requested item are shifted to 1 so slot
index gets reset to after every interaction.
3. A transaction has 2 user inputs
a. Slot index
b. Amount of money provided

I have been a fan of IOT for a long time and wanted to manage this from the comfort of
my home. I need the ability to find out:
1. Current number of items available
2. Total cash machine has earned so far

Scope
We interact with the system via a simple set of commands which produce a specific
output. Please take a look at the example below, which includes all the commands you
need to support - they're self explanatory. The system should accept a filename as a
parameter at the command prompt and read the commands from that file
Example: Input File (contents of file):
init_machine 5
set_prices 10 20 30 5 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
insert A
insert B
insert B
insert D

insert D
insert C
get 2 pay 30
get 1 pay 10
get 1 pay 20
get 10 pay 0
status

Output (to STDOUT):
Initialized machine with capacity 5
A=10,B=20,C=30,D=5,E=5....so on
Inserted item at 1 A
Inserted item at 2 B
Inserted item at 3 B
Inserted item at 4 D
Inserted item at 5 D
Insufficient space
Dispensing A B
Insufficient amount for B
Dispensing B
Item not available
Available 2
Can earn 10
Has earned 50

Explanation:
● 1st: First command initialized the machine with 5 capacity
● 2nd: Set the prices for each of the item type A to Z
● 3rd-6th: subsequent commands inserts item of type with their price
● 7th: command will fail as it exceeds the machine capacity
● 8th: User requests slot 2 to dispense so the machine will charge for 1st item + 2nd
item that is A + B, dispense them and shift remaining items back to slot 1.
● 9th: User requests slot 1 that costs 20 but provided only 10, transaction fails

● 10th: User requests slot 1 with the correct amount, machine will charge for 1st item
that is B, dispense it and shift the remaining slot.
● 11th: User requests a slot is not available at that moment
● 12th: Prints the required details of the machine at that moment